Day 25 !!

Here’s a step-by-step guide on how to create and deploy an application using Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) via the Azure Portal.

Steps to Create an AKS Cluster on Azure Portal:

1. Create an AKS Cluster
   Login to Azure Portal:
   Go to Azure Portal.
   Navigate to AKS:
   In the left sidebar, search for "Kubernetes services" in the search bar.
   Click on "Kubernetes services" under the "Services" section.
   Create a New AKS Cluster:
       Click on + Add or + Create at the top of the AKS page to create a new Kubernetes cluster.
       Configure the AKS Cluster: In the "Create Kubernetes cluster" wizard, fill in the following information:
           Subscription: Choose the Azure subscription.
           Resource Group: Either create a new resource group or select an existing one.
           Kubernetes Cluster Name: Provide a unique name for your AKS cluster.
           Region: Select the Azure region where you want the AKS cluster to be deployed (e.g., East US, West Europe).
           Kubernetes Version: Select the desired Kubernetes version (you can leave it as default).
           Node Size: Choose the virtual machine size (VMs) for your Kubernetes nodes (e.g., Standard DS2 v2).
           Node Count: Set the initial number of nodes for your cluster (e.g., 3).
           Authentication: Configure the authentication method for your AKS cluster (e.g., using Azure Active Directory (AAD) for access control).
           After entering the details, click Next: Node pools.

  Configure Node Pools:
      Node pools are the virtual machines that run your Kubernetes workloads.
      You can leave the default node pool settings or configure them based on your requirements.
      Choose the VM size, disk size, and other configurations for the node pool.

  Configure Networking:
      Select Networking to configure how the Kubernetes network will function.
      You can choose between Basic networking (simplified setup) or Advanced networking (custom VNETs, subnets, etc.).
      You can also enable features like Network Policies and Azure CNI (Container Networking Interface) if you need specific networking features.

  Configure Monitoring (optional):
      You can enable Azure Monitor and Azure Log Analytics for monitoring and logging purposes.

  Review + Create:
      Review the configurations you've set for the AKS cluster.
      If everything looks good, click Create to start the deployment.

2. Deploy an Application to AKS
    After the AKS cluster is created, you can deploy containerized applications to it. Below is how you can do this:
    Get AKS Cluster Credentials:
        Once the AKS cluster is deployed, navigate to the Kubernetes Cluster in the Azure portal.
        Under Cluster Dashboard, click Connect to retrieve the command for configuring the kubectl CLI to interact with the AKS cluster.
        Use Azure CLI or Azure Cloud Shell to configure access:
             az aks get-credentials --resource-group <resource-group-name> --name <aks-cluster-name>
        Expose the Application (Create a Service):
           To expose your application to the outside world, you need to create a Kubernetes service. You can expose the Nginx app using the following YAML file (e.g., nginx-service.yaml):
                     apiVersion: v1
                     kind: Service
                     metadata:
                        name: nginx-service
                     spec:
                        selector:
                           app: nginx
                      ports:
    -                   protocol: TCP
                           port: 80
                           targetPort: 80
                      type: LoadBalancer

        Verify the Deployment:
            To check the status of your application, run the following command:   
                kubectl get pods
    
3. Monitor and Manage the AKS Cluster
   Monitor the AKS Cluster:
      You can enable Azure Monitor for Containers to track the health and performance of your cluster and containers.
      View the metrics, logs, and other performance-related data through the Azure Portal.
      Scale the AKS Cluster:
           You can scale the number of nodes in your AKS cluster directly from the Azure Portal:
                Go to the Kubernetes Cluster.
                Click on Node pools and then select the node pool.
                Change the Node count or scale settings as needed.

4. Clean Up
    When you are finished with your AKS test or application, remember to delete the resources to avoid incurring charges.
    You can delete the AKS cluster and the associated resource group directly from the Azure Portal.
