Day 28 : Azure IoT Hub !! 

Here’s a step-by-step guide to set up and explore Azure IoT Hub in the Azure Portal:

    Step 1: Log in to Azure Portal
            Go to Azure Portal.
            Sign in with your Azure account.

    Step 2: Create an IoT Hub
            In the Azure Portal, search for "IoT Hub" in the search bar and select it.
            Click + Create.
            Fill in the required fields:
                Subscription: Choose your Azure subscription.
                Resource Group: Select an existing resource group or create a new one.
                IoT Hub Name: Provide a unique name for your IoT Hub.
                Region: Choose a location for the hub.
                Pricing and Scale Tier: Select a tier based on your needs (e.g., Free, Basic, or Standard).
            Click Review + Create and then Create.

    Step 3: Access the IoT Hub
            After deployment, navigate to the IoT Hub in the Azure Portal.
            In the Overview section, you can see key details like Hostname, Resource Group, and Location.

    Step 4: Add IoT Devices
            In the IoT Hub menu, go to Devices under the Explorers section.
            Click + New Device.
            Provide the following details:
                Device ID: Enter a unique identifier for your device.
                Authentication Type: Choose between symmetric key, self-signed, or CA-signed certificates.
                Auto-generate Keys: Enable this for automatic generation of primary and secondary keys.
            Click Save.

    Step 5: Get Device Connection String
            After creating the device, select it from the device list.
            Copy the Primary Connection String from the device details. This will be used to connect your IoT device to the IoT Hub.

    Step 6: Simulate an IoT Device
            You can test your IoT Hub by simulating a device:
              Using Azure CLI:
                 Install the Azure IoT extension:
                       az extension add --name azure-iot
            Simulate a device message:
                       az iot device simulate --device-id <YourDeviceID> --hub-name <YourIoTHubName>
            Using a Python SDK:
                 Install the Azure IoT SDK for Python:
                       pip install azure-iot-device
            Write a Python script to send data to IoT Hub using the connection string.

    Step 7: Monitor Messages in IoT Hub
            Go to Message Routing in the IoT Hub menu.
            Set up a default route to monitor incoming messages.
            Use the Azure IoT Explorer tool to view messages or connect an Azure Storage account for persistent storage.

    Step 8: Integrate IoT Hub with Other Services
            Azure Stream Analytics: Process real-time data from IoT devices.
            Azure Time Series Insights: Visualize time-series data from IoT devices.
            Azure Event Grid: Automate workflows based on IoT events.

    Step 9: Secure and Scale IoT Hub
            Use Azure Defender for IoT to enhance security.
            Manage access with Azure Active Directory (AAD) roles.
            Scale your IoT Hub based on the number of devices and messages.
