Day 18: Azure VM with Apache Installation via Custom Script Extension !! 

Steps Overview:
     Create and configure an Azure VM.
     Install Apache via Custom Script Extension.
     Integrate Azure Monitor for VM health and performance monitoring.
     Set up alerts for web server uptime, health, and CPU usage.

          Step 1: Create and Configure an Azure VM
                   You can create a VM using the Azure Portal, Azure CLI, or an ARM template. In this example, we'll use the Azure Portal for simplicity.

                1.1 Create a Virtual Machine:
                       Go to the Azure Portal and click on Create a resource.
                       In the Search box, type "Virtual Machine" and click on it.
                       Click Create and choose the following configuration:
                               Subscription: Select your subscription.
                               Resource Group: Create a new one or select an existing one.
                               VM Name: Choose a name for your VM (e.g., MyApacheVM).
                               Region: Choose your region (e.g., East US).
                               Image: Select a Linux-based image (e.g., Ubuntu 20.04 LTS).
                               Size: Choose an appropriate VM size (e.g., Standard B1s for testing).
                               Authentication Type: Choose SSH public key or Password (based on your preference).
                               Inbound Port Rules: Allow SSH (port 22) and HTTP (port 80) to access the server.
                               Review + Create the VM and wait for it to be provisioned.

          Step 2: Install Apache Using Custom Script Extension
                  The Custom Script Extension is used to execute a script on a VM after it is created. This can be a script that installs Apache and starts the service.

                  2.1 Prepare a Shell Script for Apache Installation
                         Create a shell script file (e.g., install_apache.sh) that will install and start the Apache web server.

                         # Update package index
                         sudo apt update

                         # Install Apache
                         sudo apt install -y apache2

                         # Start Apache service
                         sudo systemctl start apache2

                         # Enable Apache to start on boot
                         sudo systemctl enable apache2

                         # Confirm Apache status
                         sudo systemctl status apache2

                         You can save this script as install_apache.sh and upload it to a location accessible by Azure (like a public GitHub repository or an Azure Blob Storage container).

                    2.2 Deploy the Custom Script Extension via Azure Portal
                            Go to the Azure Portal and navigate to your newly created VM.
                            In the VM’s menu, select Extensions + applications.
                            Click Add and select Custom Script for Linux.
                            Under Script file, provide the URI to your shell script. If it is hosted in a public GitHub repo, you can use the raw link, for example:
                                  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yourrepo/install_apache.sh
                                  Or use an Azure Blob Storage URI if the script is uploaded there.
                            Click Review + Create and then Create the extension.
                            The script will execute, and Apache should be installed and running on the VM. You can verify it by SSHing into the VM:

      Step 3: Integrate Azure Monitor for VM Health and Performance
              Azure Monitor can collect and analyze performance data, health metrics, and logs from your VM. Here, we'll enable the Azure Monitor agent to collect data like CPU usage, disk I/O, and network activity.

               3.1 Enable Monitoring
                      Go to the Azure Portal and navigate to your VM.
                      In the Monitoring section of the VM, select Insights.
                      Click Enable to start collecting monitoring data for the VM. This enables the Azure Monitor Agent and starts collecting metrics such as:
                        CPU usage
                        Disk and network I/O
                        Memory usage
                        Uptime

      Step 4: Set Up Alerts for Web Server Uptime, CPU Usage, and Health

               4.1 Create Alerts for CPU Usage
                      You can create an alert to notify you when CPU usage exceeds a specific threshold.
                      In the Azure Monitor pane, select Alerts > + New alert rule.
                      Select a resource: Choose your VM resource.
                      Condition: Select Metric and choose the CPU usage metric.
                      Condition: Choose "Greater than" and set a threshold (e.g., 80%).
                      Action Group: Choose an existing action group or create a new one. This will define how the alert is sent (email, SMS, etc.).
                      Alert Details: Name the alert, for example, High CPU Usage Alert.
                      Click Create to set up the alert.

              4.2 Create Alerts for Web Server Uptime
                     You can set up a Heartbeat Alert to monitor the uptime of the Apache web server.
                     Go to Azure Monitor > Alerts > + New alert rule.
                     Select a resource: Choose the VM resource.
                     Condition: Choose Heartbeat as the signal.
                     Set a condition for the heartbeat, e.g., "not received" for a specific time range (e.g., if no heartbeat in the last 5 minutes).
                     Action Group: Choose or create an action group (email, SMS, etc.).
                     Alert Details: Name the alert (e.g., Apache Uptime Alert).
                     Click Create.

            4.3 Set Up Log Analytics for Detailed Logs (Optional)
                    If you want detailed logs of Apache or any other application:
                      Enable Diagnostics Logs:
                          In the Azure portal, go to the VM.
                          Under Monitoring, choose Diagnostics settings.
                          Enable Send to Log Analytics workspace.
                          Use Kusto Query Language (KQL) to query logs and create custom reports.
