30_DaysChallenge !!

Day 17: Facilitating container communication with docker bridge networks !!

*Steps to perform Facilitating container communication with docker bridge networks :

    Step 1: Log in to Azure Portal.

    Step 2: Create a Bridge Network:

               --> Virtual Network:
                     1.Navigate to Virtual Network in menu bar [Located in top left corner of home] (or) you can search Virtual Netwrok in Search bar.
                     2.Select on CREATE to create a Vnet.
                     3.Enter the necessary details: 
                           a. Resource Group name
                           b. Vnet name.
                           c. Region.
                     4.Go to IP addresses and create a new address.
                     5.In the "SECURITY" section, you can configure the Azure firewall, Azure DDoS Protection, and Azure Virtual WAN.
                     6.Click on Add subnet, and enter the subnet name and enter the IP address. Once done click on CREATE to create a subnet.
                     7.Then click on CREATE when you go to review+create.
                     8.Once depolyment is complete, go to resource to view your Vnet.
                     9.Click on subnets to add new subnets in your Vnet.

     Step 3: Launch two Docker Containers:

                     1.Select "Container instances" from the left-hand navigation menu.
                     2 Enter the following details:
                          a. Container name
                          b. Region
                          c. Size
                     3.Under the "Networking" tab, you should see an option to "Associate with a subnet". Select the subnet that you want to associate with the container.
                     4.CLick on CREATE in REVIEW + CREATE tab.
                     5.Repeat the same steps for the second container instance.

     Step 4: Assign both containers with same network:

                    For this while creating a CONTAINER INSTANCES:
                        1.Under NETWORKING tab, click on private.
                        2.Select the Vnet and Subnet that you want to assign to your Conatiner.
                        3.Repeat the same steps for Container 2.
